>> Will Sentance: Function decoration.
Now we convert our functions more
easily to make them suit our task.
If we're saving little blocks of code,
little functions to be used again and
again, little single tiny functions
to be used again and again, ideally,
I don't want to have to rewrite that
code if they're slightly different.
Now, there's one thing I can do,
write higher order functions.
I can have my function.
Don't need to rewrite it, I just edit it.
When I run it, I insert some specifics.
The problem is I've had to
have left a placeholder.
Remember, higher order functions
like copy, write, manipulate or map,
I'd leave a little placeholder.
When I run map, I specify exactly how I
want to hit each element of the array.
But sometimes I want to edit functions
where I haven't left placeholders.
I wanna retroactively give
them new functionality.
Problem with that people is, can I edit
a function's body after I've saved it?
Everyone together?
>> No
>> Will Sentance: No, I can't, exactly.
Once a function's been saved,
I can't go in.
Arrays, individual elements in an array,
I can add or remove stuff.
Function code, once it's saved,
I can't go back in there and
interact with it, it's set.
So we want to be able to edit functions
but not rewrite them from scratch.
So instead, we're gonna use a technique
known as function decoration.
It's going to appear to edit
functionality that's being saved,
it's going to appear to do so.
It's actually not going to, though.
Instead, it's going to
create new functions or
a new function,
inside which the function we
want to edit is going to
be inserted in some way.
Such that when we run the new function,
it's going to appear to be
running our function and
with a slightly different behavior.
It's going to appear to
have edited our function.
But actually, we've created a new
function where we're running the function
inside of it that we want to edit.
And so that new function will look like
it's the original function but edited.
Here it is.
So particularly if you want to add
a permanent memory, for example,
to an existing function we saved.
Am I able to add the feature of
a permanent memory, a backpack,
to an existing function I've saved.
If I've saved a function, am I able to
give it a backpack after I've saved it?
Absolutely not.
The only way is for me to get it is if I
saved it inside the running of another
function and returned it out.
So if I didn't do that,
how can I give it a permanent memory?
Well, there is a way.
It's called, [INAUDIBLE] use it here.
So for example, if I want to edit
my function, here's a classic one.
Suppose I want to edit my function,
let's say multiply by 2,
to limit it to run only once.
So I can only run it once and
from now on it's fixed to only run once.
I run it one time, runs, no,
problem, multiply by two,
let's say we give it a ten.
Run it again, it says, sorry,
you've already run me.
You can't run me again.
This is a technique you wanna
use all the time in programming.
Often we wanna limit a function from being
called, even in a game, for example,
tic-tac-toe.
You wanna limit a function to be
called only one time on a given cell.
You don't wanna be able to turn it from
being a 0 to an X and then back to an X.
You wanna limit it to run one time.
Well, I can't edit my
multiply by two function and
give it a backpack to say you can
only run it once, once it's saved.
So instead I'm gonna do a technique
called function decoration.
I'm going to use oncify a function that's
going to appear to convert
my multiply by two
function saved there into
a version of multiply
by two that is limited to run only once.
But it's gonna be a big fraud.
In reality, inside of oncify,
I'm going to create a brand new function.
Seth, will my brand new function
inside of onceify have a backpack?
>> Seth: Yes.
>> Will Sentance: Yes, it will.
I'm going to return that out.
It's going to be called inner and
stored in oncify multiply by two.
And oncify multiple by two is going to
behave just like multiple by two at least
the the first time.
But in reality,
it ain't behaving like multiply by two.
In reality, inside of it,
it's going to run from its
backpack the multiply by two
function under the condition
that upon checking the backpack,
a counter is still zero.
And then it's gonna increment
a counter to say now it's one.
And if we run oncify multiple by two,
formerly known as inner again, it's going
to say sorry, counter is now one in
the backpack, you can't run me again.
But it's gonna be really
interesting interweaving here.
So I said we're looking for another way.
We're gonna map this out in full,
but let's look at another way.
Our oncified multiply by two is
going to be the inner function that
comes out of oncify.
It's going to appear to
edit multiply by two.
It ain’t.
You can't edit a function.
It's gonna appear to give multiply by two,
you know,
we could even actually have oncify
multiply by two be given a name,
I don't know,
multiply by two once or whatever.
It's gonna appear to edit multiply by two,
it's not.
In reality, what is it doing?
It's creating a new function that
does have access to a backpack.
We need a backpack to be able to
limit a function to run only once.
I should have stressed that.
A function to run once and
limited to only run once needs to
remember it's previously been run.
Otherwise, how can it be
limited to run only once?
A normal function doesn't
remember its previous running.
So it doesn't know it's been run before.
So we need our function
to have a backpack.
And this is exactly
what's gonna happen here.
But we can't give multiply
by two a backpack later.
So we're instead going to decorate it.
Which in the land of functional
programming means creating a brand new
function called inner inside of oncify,
inside of which we're going
to check a counter, which is going to
have access to a persistent counter
in the backpack after the first running
of inner notice oncify multiple by two.
We're going to not be
able to run convert me,
which is gonna be multiply by two, again.
This, people, is using closure,
the principle of giving
functions permanent memories,
to supercharge our functions,
to add new functionality to our
function multiply by two once
it's been initially saved.
And it turns out to be a core
principle of functional programming.
Beyond this, folk, once you realize
that you can have your function,
be pseudo-edited by building a brand new
function inside of which it's going to run
the function that's passed to the function
oncify that produces a brand new function.
Once you realize that,
you may not just wanna store in
the backpack a counter, for example.
You may actually want to store an input
for a function that requires two inputs.
Knock that one out, and
now the function only requires one input.
Which might start finally,
to solve Seth's worry.
That when I list all functions, when my
dream of functional programming is listing
off my functions, do this one, then
this one, then this one automatically.
With point free style.
No reference to the running of them,
no putting the parens on and
saying what to take as the input.
So if my function that I'm taking into my
list of functions to run one after another
after another requires two inputs,
it's gonna break my whole setup.
We'll see all that in a moment.
For now, here we go, people.
We are going to build a new,
apparent, a pretend multiply by two
function that works just like multiply
by two, but actually is a totally
different function that happens to
run multiply by two inside of itself.
And we're gonna keep that multiply by
two function inside oncify multiply by
two inside of its backpack.